books.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: Books
permalink: /books/
---

Here's a list of books that have been instrumental in my growth and development as a trader.  Some of them are more tangential to the world of financial markets and investing, but they still helped me gain a unique perspective on trading and investing in general.  

#### Recommended Reading List:
- [*The Disciplined Trader: Developing Winning Attitudes*](/books/thedisciplinedtrader)
- [*Reminiscinces of a Stock Operator*](/books/reminiscences/)
- [*Market Wizards: Interviews With Top Traders*](/books/marketwizards/)
- [*Technical Analysis of the Financial Markets: A Comprehensive Guide to Trading Methods and Applications*](/books/taotfm/)
- [*Technical Analysis from A to Z*](/books/taa2z/)
- [*Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques*](/books/candlesticks/)
- [*Zen in the Art of Archery*](/books/zenarchery/)
- Hagakure
- The Art of War

Please also note that I am not affiliated in any way with the authors, publishers, or vendors of these items.

Commit message:

fleshed out links page and more book reviews and fixing typos

books.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: Books
permalink: /books/
---

Here's a list of books that have been instrumental in my growth and development as a trader.  While none of them, individually, is responsible for my current philosophy and strategy with respect to the world of financial markets and investing, they *ALL* helped me gain a unique perspective on trading and investing in general.  

#### Recommended Reading List:
- [*The Disciplined Trader: Developing Winning Attitudes*](/books/thedisciplinedtrader)
- [*Reminiscinces of a Stock Operator*](/books/reminiscences/)
- [*Market Wizards: Interviews With Top Traders*](/books/marketwizards/)
- [*Technical Analysis of the Financial Markets: A Comprehensive Guide to Trading Methods and Applications*](/books/taotfm/)
- [*Technical Analysis from A to Z*](/books/taa2z/)
- [*Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques*](/books/candlesticks/)
- [*Hagakure*](/books/hagakure/)

Please also note that I am not affiliated in any way with the authors, publishers, or vendors of these items.
