---
layout: post
title:  "What Now??"
date:   2025-04-12 00:00:00 -0000
categories: 
# permalink: 
---
### What Now???

It's been a very rough last few weeks.  I had been looking to buy Puts on several stocks, but was never able to get filled for my cherry-picking bids.  I guess sometimes you just gotta pay up, but honestly, I never felt like paying that much was worth the risk.  When looking at Calls for the bearish Index ETFs, things were similarly priced and basically not attractive enough for me to pull the trigger.

So now, after the market has already made a major move down, things are even more expensive.  Will the market continue with another leg down?  Maybe.  

Will it be worth it to try to establish bearish trades from here?  Hmmmm...  Again, I can't find anything attractive.  It's looking like I'll be maintaining my search for bullish opportunities, but as you can imagine, there aren't nearly as many stocks that are offering good entry points.  I'm not the kind of guy to "Buy into weakness" nor "Sell into strength"...  I keep position sizes manageably small and let the market make me money instead of trying to enforce my will upon it.

The number of results for my screen of sub-dollar stocks has increased substantially due to so many companies getting hammered.  But while that means I'm going through more tickers, I get through them quicker because so many of them look like complete dogshit.  

Having said that, there are still a small handful of tickers I'll be watching.  There's always something on the move, and sometimes we just need to keep pluggin' away.

GLHF and hope to see ya on the other end!!