---
layout: post
title:  "What Is A Penny Stock? - Part 2"
date:   2025-02-23 12:00:02 -0800
---
## The Problem(s) with Penny Stocks. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  :(

What's the problem? Well, the problem is that there are **MANY** problems with Penny Stocks!

We can start by looking at the most egregious of ways to rip people off.  I suppose we could look at the sentencing rules to determine which of these ways is the "worst", but that's kind of outside the scope of my familiarity (mostly because I'm not an asshole and I don't worry about such things).  But we gotta start somewhere, so let's start with...

### FRAUD
Fraud manifests in many ways, but can generally be defined as the result of "fraudulent activity"... activity performed *with an intent to deceive* an investor regardless of whether it results in a profit for the fraudster or results in a loss for the investor.  On a corporate level, this can happen when a company issues shares that it knows has no value, and are later sold to investors who have been *intentionally* deceived into thinking that those shares have value.  And/or when such a company *intentionally* lies about how much money they're making or how much money they have.

Generally, the focus is upon INTENT, where the fraudster has no intentions to adhere to the truth, but has intentions to profit from being untruthful or in some cases simply intends to cause financial harm to others.

While the following link is **wholly unassociated with my website**, I *strongly* encourage you to check out the [Investor.gov website and their section on Fraud](https://www.investor.gov/protect-your-investments/fraud/types-fraud).

### Misrepresentation and/or Omission of Relevant Facts
Unfortunately, being stupid and/or ignorant is not a crime (our prisons are overcrowded as it is, already).  Similarly, making bad business decisions is not a crime.  And although being negligent and/or reckless can cause damages that one can file a claim against, the perpetrator isn't necessarily a criminal...

However, intentionally "tweaking" the truth and/or intentionally withholding the truth *IS* a crime!  Misrepresentation and Omission of Relevant Facts play the roles of the "white lies" of Fraud.  Less egregious, more subtle and harder to discern or prove in court, **but still a con job**.

So whether it's the company that's doing it, or the broker/advisor that solicits a transaction in a company's securities, being anything other than fully transparent opens the door for this kind of violation.