---
layout: post
title:  "Isn't Trading Just Legalized Gambling?"
date:   2025-03-07 00:00:07 -0800
categories: FAQs
permalink: /FAQs/gambling/
---
### Isn't Trading Just Another Form Of Legalized Gambling?

Hmmmmm...  My gut response is "Yes"...  But...  

I say this because everyone has their own experiences, perspectives, and ultimately their own definition for "Gambling" and "Investing".  I've found that people's attitudes and philosophy (and their approach) to Gambling mirrors their attitude and philosophy (and approach) to Investing.  

I will not waste any time or effort (beyond creating content for this website) tyring to convince someone that they can develop their knowledge and skillset to faciliate success through their investment decisions.  Nor will I do similarly, trying to dissuade them from the myriad sports betting and casino apps that have recently proliferated.  

For me, it comes down to "Applied Decisionmaking"...  What do we know?  How much faith do we have in *what we think we know*?  What do we want to happen?  How can use what we think we know and what we want to happen to guide our decisions to maximize the benefits of certain desired outcomes actually occurring???  

There's only *so much* that we have control over.  On a regular (if not ongoing) basis, we manage imperfect information in a way that keeps **The Universe** within "Understandable" if not "Acceptable" bounds, lest we give up and relent to the delusions of ourselves and/or others and the dissonance thereof.  

The prospect of profitable trading over The Long Run will only ever be realized as the reult of a conscious effort predicated upon one's firm belief that such is achievable.  

So, much like professional Poker players who find themselves as regular participants at tournament final tables, a consistently successful trader will find themselves in a position to be the benfactor of having successfully navigated the randomness and uncertainty that financial markets present.