---
layout: post
title:  "Progress: Walking the Path from Ignorance to Enlightenment.  Part 1"
date:   2025-04-23 00:00:00 -0000
categories: 
# permalink: /progress/part1/
---
### Walking the Path.  Part 1

When I first started getting interested in trading financial markets, I knew nothing more than the semester course that was taught in my senior year of high school.  At one point, the teacher had us do some mock trading to get us to learn how to read closing quotes from newspapers, and use whatever techniques/strategies from which to extract our trade ideas.  We would hand him "tickets" to open and close our positions and we'd all keep tabs on our P/L.  The only thing I can remember about the results of these trades is that it was.. um.. unremarkable.  LUL

Certainly, there wasn't much time for impactful instruction nor explanation of the many aspects involved with trying to develop a methodology that could lead to developing a profitable system in the long run.  But overall and in hindsight, it wasn't a negative experience and it did well with introducing many of us to the basics.

When my dot com employer started making plans to go public in the late 1990s, it really sparked a light under my butt.  I realized then, and still believe now, that it's possible for **ANYBODY** to achieve financial independence simply by using their mind.  Race, Gender, Age, Physical Traits...  NONE of these really play a role that would prevent someone from achieving their goals.

But to do so requires a hell of a lot off stubborn determination, a well-directed effort, and an almost blind faith that things will come together.  People don't "luck" into trading success.  It's a long process that has to start somewhere, and oh yeah...  You need MONEY!!!